Humming as she traces her fingers over an ancient
monument in a long-forgotten ruin, a half-elf in rugged
leathers finds knowledge springing into her mind,
conjured forth by the magic o f her song-knowledge
o f the people who constructed the monument and the
mythic saga it depicts.
A stern human warrior bangs his sword rhythmically
against his scale mail, setting the tempo for his war chant
and exhorting his companions to bravery and heroism. The magic o f his song fortifies and emboldens them. Laughing as she tunes her cittern, a gnome w eaves
her subtle magic over the assembled nobles, ensuring
that her companions' words will be well received.
Whether scholar, skald, or scoundrel, a bard weaves
magic through words and music to inspire allies,
demoralize foes, manipulate minds, create
illusions, and even heal wounds.
-M u s i c A n d M a g i c
In the worlds o f D&D, words and music are
not just vibrations o f air, but vocalizations with
power all their own. The bard is a master o f song,
speech, and the magic they contain. Bards say
that the multiverse w as spoken into existence, that the
words o f the gods gave it shape, and that echoes o f these
primordial Words o f Creation still resound throughout
the cosmos. The music o f bards is an attempt to snatch
and harness those echoes, subtly woven into their
spells and powers.
The greatest strength of bards is their sheer
versatility. Many bards prefer to stick to the sidelines
in combat, using their magic to inspire their allies and
hinder their foes from a distance. But bards are capable
o f defending themselves in melee if necessary, using
their m agic to bolster their swords and armor. Their
spells lean toward charms and illusions rather than
blatantly destructive spells. They have a wide-ranging
knowledge o f many subjects and a natural aptitude
that lets them do almost anything well. Bards become
masters o f the talents they set their minds to perfecting,
from musical performance to esoteric knowledge.
-L e a r n i n g F r o m E x p e r i e n c e
True bards are not common in the world. Not every
minstrel singing in a tavern or jester cavorting in a royal
court is a bard. Discovering the magic hidden in music
requires hard study and some measure o f natural talent
that most troubadours and jongleurs lack. It can be hard
to spot the difference between these performers and true
bards, though. A bard's life is spent wandering across
the land gathering lore, telling stories, and living on the
gratitude o f audiences, much like any other entertainer.
But a depth o f knowledge, a level of musical skill, and a
touch of magic set bards apart from their fellows.
Only rarely do bards settle in one place for long, and
their natural desire to travel-to find new tales to tell,
new skills to learn, and new discoveries beyond the
horizon-makes an adventuring career a natural calling.
Every adventure is an opportunity to learn, practice a
variety o f skills, enter long-forgotten tombs, discover lost
works o f magic, decipher old tomes, travel to strange
places, or encounter exotic creatures. Bards love to
accompany heroes to witness their deeds firsthand. A
bard who can tell an awe-inspiring story from personal
experience earns renown among other bards. Indeed,
after telling so many stories about heroes accomplishing
mighty deeds, many bards take these themes to heart
and assume heroic roles themselves.