Elves are a magical people o f otherworldly grace, living
in the w orld but not entirely part of it. They live in
places of ethereal beauty, in the midst o f ancient forests
or in silvery spires glittering with faerie light, where
soft music drifts through the air and gentle fragrances
waft on the breeze. Elves love nature and magic, art
and artistry, music and poetry, and the good things
o f the world.
-S l e n d e r A n d G r a c e f u l
With their unearthly grace and fine features, elves
appear hauntingly beautiful to humans and members
o f many other races. They are slightly shorter than
humans on average, ranging from well under 5 feet
tall to just over 6 feet. They are more slender than
humans, weighing only 100 to 145 pounds. Males and
females are about the same height, and males are only
marginally heavier than females.
Elves' coloration encompasses the normal human
range and also includes skin in shades of copper,
bronze, and almost bluish-white, hair o f green or blue,
and eyes like pools o f liquid gold or silver. Elves have no
facial and little body hair. They favor elegant clothing in
bright colors, and they enjoy simple yet lovely jewelry.
-A T i m e l e s s P e r s p e c t i v e
Elves can live well over 700 years, giving them a broad
perspective on events that might trouble the shorterlived
races more deeply. They are more often amused
than excited, and more likely to be curious than
greedy. They tend to remain aloof and unfazed by petty
happenstance. When pursuing a goal, however, whether
adventuring on a mission or learning a new skill or art,
elves can be focused and relentless. They are slow to
make friends and enemies, and even slower to forget
them. They reply to petty insults with disdain and to
serious insults with vengeance.
Like the branches o f a young tree, elves are flexible
in the face o f danger. They trust in diplomacy and
compromise to resolve differences before they escalate
to violence. They have been known to retreat from
intrusions into their woodland homes, confident
that they can simply wait the invaders out. But when
the need arises, elves reveal a stern martial side,
demonstrating skill with sword, bow, and strategy.
-H i d d e n W o o d l a n d R e a l m s
Most elves dwell in small forest villages hidden among
the trees. Elves hunt game, gather food, and grow
vegetables, and their skill and magic allow them to
support themselves without the need for clearing and
plowing land. They are talented artisans, crafting finely
worked clothes and art objects. Their contact with
outsiders is usually limited, though a few elves make a
good living by trading crafted items for metals (which
they have no interest in mining).
Elves encountered outside their own lands are
commonly traveling minstrels, artists, or sages. Human
nobles compete for the services o f elf instructors to
teach swordplay or magic to their children.
-E x p l o r a t i o n A n d A d v e n t u r e
Elves take up adventuring out o f wanderlust. Since
they are so long-lived, they can enjoy centuries of
exploration and discovery. They dislike the pace of
human society, which is regimented from day to day but
constantly changing over decades, so they find careers
that let them travel freely and set their own pace. Elves
also enjoy exercising their martial prowess or gaining
greater magical power, and adventuring allows them
to do so. Some might join with rebels fighting against
oppression, and others might become champions o f
moral causes.