Kingdoms rich in ancient grandeur, halls carved into the
roots o f mountains, the echoing o f picks and hammers
in deep mines and blazing forges, a commitment to
clan and tradition, and a burning hatred o f goblins and
orcs-these common threads unite all dwarves.
-S h o r t A n d S t o u t
Bold and hardy, dwarves are known as
skilled warriors, miners, and workers
of stone and metal. Though they stand
well under 5 feet tall, dwarves are so
broad and compact that they can weigh
as much as a human standing nearly two
feet taller. Their courage and endurance
are also easily a match for any of
the larger folk.
Dwarven skin ranges from deep brown to a paler
hue tinged with red, but the most common shades are
light brown or deep tan, like certain tones o f earth. Their hair, worn long but in simple styles, is usually
black, gray, or brown, though paler dwarves often have
red hair. Male dwarves value their beards highly and
groom them carefully.
-L o n g M e m o r y , L o n g G r u d g e s
Dwarves can live to be more than 400 years old, so the
oldest living dwarves often remember a very different
world. For example, some o f the oldest dwarves living
in Citadel Felbarr (in the w orld o f the Forgotten Realms)
can recall the day, more than three centuries ago, when
orc s conquered the fortress and drove them into an exile
that lasted over 250 years. This longevity grants them a
perspective on the world that shorter-lived races such as
humans and halflings lack.
Dwarves are solid and enduring like the mountains
they love, weathering the passage o f centuries with stoic
endurance and little change. They respect the traditions
of their clans, tracing their ancestry back to the
founding o f their m ost ancient strongholds in the youth
o f the world, and don't abandon those traditions lightly. Part o f those traditions is devotion to the gods o f the
dwarves, who uphold the dwarven ideals o f industrious
labor, skill in battle, and devotion to the forge.
Individual dwarves are determined and loyal, true to
their w ord and decisive in action, sometimes to the point
o f stubbornness. Many dwarves have a strong sense
o f justice, and they are slow to forget w rongs they have
suffered. A wrong done to one dwarf is a wrong done to
the dwarf's entire clan, so what begins as one dwarf's
hunt for vengeance can become a full-blown clan feud.
-C l a n s A n d K i n g d o m s
Dwarven kingdoms stretch deep beneath the mountains
where the dwarves mine gems and precious metals
and forge items o f wonder. They love the beauty and
artistry o f precious metals and fine jewelry, and in some
dwarves this love festers into avarice. Whatever wealth
they can't find in their mountains, they gain through
trade. They dislike boats, so enterprising humans and
halflings frequently handle trade in dwarven goods
along water routes. Trustworthy m embers o f other races
are welcome in dwarf settlements, though some areas
are off limits even to them.
The chief unit of dwarven society is the clan, and
dwarves highly value social standing. Even dwarves
who live far from their own kingdoms cherish their clan
identities and affiliations, recognize related dwarves,
and invoke their ancestors' names in oaths and curses.
To be clanless is the worst fate that can befall a dwarf.
Dwarves in other lands are typically artisans,
especially weaponsmiths, armorers, and jewelers. Some
become mercenaries or bodyguards, highly sought after
for their courage and loyalty.
-G o d s , G o l d , A n d C l a n
Dwarves w ho take up the adventuring life might be
motivated by a desire for treasure-for its own sake, for
a specific purpose, or even out o f an altruistic desire to
help others. Other dwarves are driven by the command
or inspiration o f a deity, a direct calling or simply a
desire to bring glory to one of the dwarf gods. Clan and
ancestry are also important motivators. A dwarf might
seek to restore a clan’s lost honor, avenge an ancient
wrong the clan suffered, or earn a new place within the
clan after having been exiled. Or a dwarf might search
for the axe w ielded by a mighty ancestor, lost on the field
o f battle centuries ago.