Acid. As an action, you can splash the contents of
this vial onto a creature within 5 feet of you or throw
the vial up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. In either
case, make a ranged attack against a creature or object,
treating the acid as an improvised w eapon. On a hit, the
target takes 2d6 acid damage.
Alchemist’s Fire. This sticky, adhesive fluid ignites
when exposed to air. As an action, you can throw this
flask up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. Make a
ranged attack against a creature or object, treating
the alchemist's fire as an improvised weapon. On a
hit, the target takes 1d4 fire damage at the start of
each o f its turns. A creature can end this damage by
using its action to make a DC 10 Dexterity check to
extinguish the flames.
Antitoxin. A creature that drinks this vial o f liquid
gains advantage on saving throws against poison for 1
hour. It confers no benefit to undead or constructs.
Arcane Focus. An arcane focus is a special item—
an orb, a crystal, a rod, a specially constructed staff,
a wand-like length o f wood, or some similar item—
designed to channel the power o f arcane spells. A
sorcerer, warlock, or w izard can use such an item as a
spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10.
Ball Bearings. As an action, you can spill these tiny
metal balls from their pouch to cover a level area 10
feet square. A creature moving across the covered area
must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall
prone. A creature moving through the area at half speed
doesn’t need to make the saving throw.
Block and Tackle. A set o f pulleys with a cable
threaded through them and a hook to attach to objects, a
block and tackle allows you to hoist up to four times the
weight you can normally lift.
Book. A b ook might contain poetry, historical
accounts, information pertaining to a particular field
o f lore, diagrams and notes on gnomish contraptions,
or just about anything else that can be represented
using text or pictures. A b ook o f spells is a spellbook
(described later in this section).
Caltrops. As an action, you can spread a single bag
o f caltrops to cover a 5-foot-square area. Any creature
that enters the area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity
saving throw or stop moving and take 1 piercing
damage. Until the creature regains at least 1 hit point,
its walking speed is reduced by 10 feet. A creature
moving through the area at half speed doesn’t need to
make the saving throw.
Candle. For 1 hour, a candle sheds bright light in a
5-foot radius and dim light for an additional 5 feet.
Case, Crossbow Bolt. This w ooden case can hold up
to twenty c rossbow bolts.
Case, Map or Scroll. This cylindrical leather case can
hold up to ten rolled-up sheets o f paper or five rolled-up
sheets o f parchment.
Chain. A chain has 10 hit points. It can be burst with a
successful DC 20 Strength check.
Climber’s Kit. A c limber’s kit includes special pitons,
boot tips, gloves, and a harness. You can use the
climber’s kit as an action to anchor yourself; when you
do, you can’t fall more than 25 feet from the point where
you anchored yourself, and you can't climb more than 25
feet away from that point without undoing the anchor.
Component Pouch. A component pouch is a small,
watertight leather belt pouch that has compartments
to hold all the material components and other special
items you need to cast your spells, except for those
components that have a specific cost (as indicated in a
spell's description).
Crowbar. Using a crowbar grants advantage
to Strength checks where the crowbar’s leverage
can be applied.
Druidic Focus. A druidic focus might be a sprig of
mistletoe or holly, a wand or scepter made o f yew or
another special wood, a staff drawn whole out o f a living
tree, or a totem object incorporating feathers, fur, bones,
and teeth from sacred animals. A druid can use such an
object as a spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10.
Fishing Tackle. This kit includes a wooden rod, silken
line, corkwood bobbers, steel hooks, lead sinkers, velvet
lures, and narrow netting.
Healer’s Kit. This kit is a leather pouch containing
bandages, salves, and splints. The kit has ten uses. As
an action, you can expend one use o f the kit to stabilize
a creature that has 0 hit points, without needing to make
a W isdom (Medicine) check.
Holy Symbol. A holy symbol is a representation of
a god or pantheon. It might be an amulet depicting a
symbol representing a deity, the same symbol carefully
engraved or inlaid as an emblem on a shield, or a tiny
box holding a fragment o f a sacred relic. Appendix B
lists the symbols commonly associated with many gods
in the multiverse. A cleric or paladin can use a holy
symbol as a spellcasting focus, as described in chapter
10. To use the symbol in this way, the caster must hold it
in hand, wear it visibly, or bear it on a shield.
Holy Water. As an action, you can splash the contents
o f this flask onto a creature within 5 feet o f you or throw
it up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. In either case,
make a ranged attack against a target creature, treating
the holy water as an improvised w eapon. If the target is
a fiend or undead, it takes 2d6 radiant damage. A cleric or paladin may create holy water by
performing a special ritual. The ritual takes 1 hour
to perform, uses 25 gp worth of powdered silver, and
requires the caster to expend a 1st-level spell slot.
Hunting Trap. When you use your action to set it,
this trap forms a saw-toothed steel ring that snaps shut
when a creature steps on a pressure plate in the center. The trap is affixed by a heavy chain to an immobile
object, such as a tree or a spike driven into the ground. A creature that steps on the plate must succeed on a DC
13 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 piercing damage
and stop moving. Thereafter, until the creature breaks
free o f the trap, its movement is limited by the length
o f the chain (typically 3 feet long). A creature can use
its action to make a DC 13 Strength check, freeing
itself or another creature within its reach on a success. Each failed check deals 1 piercing damage to the
trapped creature.
Lamp. A lamp casts bright light in a 15-foot radius
and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Once lit, it burns
for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of oil.
Lantern, Bullseye. A bullseye lantern casts bright
light in a 60-foot cone and dim light for an additional 60
feet. Once lit, it burns for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) o f oil.
Lantern, Hooded. A h ooded lantern casts bright light
in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30
feet. Once lit, it burns for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of
oil. As an action, you can lower the hood, reducing the
light to dim light in a 5-foot radius.
Lock. A key is provided with the lock. Without the
key, a creature proficient with thieves’ tools can pick
this lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. Your DM may decide that better locks are available
for higher prices.
Magnifying Glass. This lens allows a closer look at
small objects. It is also useful as a substitute for flint
and steel when starting fires. Lighting a fire with a
magnifying glass requires light as bright as sunlight to
focus, tinder to ignite, and about 5 minutes for the fire
to ignite. A m agnifying glass grants advantage on any
ability check made to appraise or inspect an item that is
small or highly detailed.
Manacles. These metal restraints can bind a Small
or Medium creature. Escaping the manacles requires
a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Breaking them
requires a successful DC 20 Strength check. Each
set o f manacles comes with one key. Without the key,
a creature proficient with thieves’ tools can pick the
manacles’ lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity
check. Manacles have 15 hit points.
Mess Kit. This tin box contains a cup and simple
cutlery. The box clamps together, and one side can
be used as a cooking pan and the other as a plate or
shallow bowl.
Oil. Oil usually comes in a clay flask that holds 1
pint. As an action, you can splash the oil in this flask
onto a creature within 5 feet o f you or throw it up to
20 feet, shattering it on impact. Make a ranged attack
against a target creature or object, treating the oil as
an improvised weapon. On a hit, the target is covered
in oil. If the target takes any fire damage before the oil
dries (after 1 minute), the target takes an additional 5
fire damage from the burning oil. You can also pour a
flask of oil on the ground to cover a 5-foot-square area,
provided that the surface is level. If lit, the oil burns for
2 rounds and deals 5 fire damage to any creature that
enters the area or ends its turn in the area. A creature
can take this damage only once per turn.
Spyglass. Objects viewed through a spyglass are
magnified to twice their size.
Tent. A simple and portable canvas shelter, a
tent sleeps two.
Tinderbox. This small container holds flint, fire steel,
and tinder (usually dry cloth soaked in light oil) used to
kindle a fire. Using it to light a torch—or anything else
with abundant, exposed fuel—takes an action. Lighting
any other fire takes 1 minute.
Torch. A torch burns for 1 hour, providing bright light
in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20
feet. If you make a melee attack with a burning torch
and hit, it deals 1 fire damage.