Artisan’s Tools. These special tools include the items
needed to pursue a craft or trade. The table shows
examples o f the most common types o f tools, each
providing items related to a single craft. Proficiency
with a set o f artisan’s tools lets you add your proficiency
bonus to any ability checks you make using the tools
in your craft. Each type of artisan’s tools requires a
separate proficiency.
Disguise Kit. This pouch o f cosmetics, hair dye, and
small props lets you create disguises that change your
physical appearance. Proficiency with this kit lets you
add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you
make to create a visual disguise.
Forgery Kit. This small b ox contains a variety o f
papers and parchments, pens and inks, seals and
sealing wax, gold and silver leaf, and other supplies
necessary to create convincing forgeries o f physical
documents. Proficiency with this kit lets you add your
proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
create a physical forgery o f a document.
Gaming Set. This item encompasses a w ide range
o f game pieces, including dice and decks o f cards (for
games such as Three-Dragon Ante). A few common
examples appear on the Tools table, but other kinds of
gaming sets exist. If you are proficient with a gaming
set, you can add your proficiency bonus to ability checks
you make to play a game with that set. Each type o f
gaming set requires a separate proficiency.
Herbalism Kit. This kit contains a variety of
instruments such as clippers, mortar and pestle, and
pouches and vials used by herbalists to create remedies
and potions. Proficiency with this kit lets you add your
proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
identify or apply herbs. Also, proficiency with this kit is
required to create antitoxin and potions of healing.
Musical Instrument. Several o f the most common
types o f musical instruments are shown on the table as
examples. If you have proficiency with a given musical
instrument, you can add your proficiency bonus to
any ability checks you make to play music with the
instrument. A bard can use a musical instrument as a
spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10. Each type
o f musical instrument requires a separate proficiency.
Navigator’s Tools. This set o f instruments is u sed
for navigation at sea. Proficiency with navigator's tools
lets you chart a ship's course and follow navigation
charts. In addition, these tools allow you to add your
proficiency bonus to any ability check you make to avoid
getting lost at sea.
Poisoner’s Kit. A p oisoner’s kit includes the vials,
chemicals, and other equipment necessary for the
creation o f poisons. Proficiency with this kit lets you add
your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
craft or u se poisons.
Thieves’ Tools. This set o f tools includes a small file,
a set o f lock picks, a small mirror m ounted on a metal
handle, a set o f narrow-bladed scissors, and a pair of
pliers. Proficiency with these tools lets you add your
proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
disarm traps or open locks.